# Simulating-Attacker-and-Defender-actions-in-an-abstract-Computer-Network
I have started this project to replicate a cybersecurity attack on a computer network using just code. The first step of this project would be creating a computer network upon which the Attacker and defender can work.A computer network is just a bunch of interconnected computers in real life. Similarly, the computer network I am building in code is a collection of several nodes, each with a node id and some node information. All these nodes are interconnected, and this functionality is not implemented in the code explicitly.

Let us imagine a computer running a web server software. The web server software is vulnerable to remote code execution when connected to the server. The firewall rules on the computer must allow a connection on a particular port, the webserver should be running, and the web server software is of a specific version that is not yet unpatched from the zero-day vulnerability. Afterstudying some of these vulnerabilities, I have decided to replicate real-world computers as closely as possible. A node has a unique id, operating system, user privilege level, a list of properties, firewall rules, some services running, and a few vulnerabilities. A node with at least all these attributes is needed for this demonstration. When creating a network, I will make several Node class objects, each with randomly chosen attributes to have at least a few vulnerabilities.

The Attacker acting on this network would be oblivious to the network and nodes’ information. For demonstration purposes, I am compromising at least one node initially. The Attacker only has information about that compromised node and it can exploit privilege escalation vulnerabilities on the node if possible. Successful privilege escalation might reveal some cached credentials or cached node ids of other nodes in the network. Upon learning about additional nodes, the Attacker can gather available information about those nodes. This process is like running a network or port scan. Upon discovering some info, the Attacker might try a remote exploit on the node or try to do privilege escalation on the already compromised node, and the process goes on. I am using a probability value to control the amount of cached data revealed after a privilege escalation, and the amount of information gathered about a remote node.

The defender’s actions on the network are like an Endpoint security software installed in a network and the SIEM tools searching for anomalies in the network. Any attacker actions on a computer may trigger the endpoint security software, which will raise an alert to the SIEM tool. Upon detecting compromised computers in an entire network, the Incident response personnel starts isolating the computer from the web and re-imaging the computer. Similarly, the defender can scan some nodes in the network and identify compromised nodes. Compromised nodes are re-imaged, but the process will take some time. The defender may change the node’s configuration to complete the re-imaging process, such as stopping some services from running and changing firewall rules. After setting up this environment, the Attacker and defender will perform their respective actions until the network is wholly compromised or it reaches a predefined number of steps.

For convenience, I have divided the code into four modules. The network_data module holds the classes and functions necessary to create a network with randomly configured nodes. The attacker_data module holds the Attacker class and its methods, the defender_data module holds the Defender class, and the main module pulls all those class objects to demonstrate a security attack on the network.

To run this project, simply clone all the four modules into an IDE and run the main module or if using a terminal, after cloning all the modules, run the following command - python3 main.py
If you are running this project in a terminal, you won't be able to see the visualization of the network graph.
I have drawn inspiration for this project from Microsoft's CyberBattleSim reasearch project on GitHub - https://github.com/microsoft/CyberBattleSim
